---
layout: post
author: bingsheng
---
Parallel Graph Processing Systems on Heterogeneous Architectures
 
## Abstract
Graphs are de facto data structures for many data processing applications, and their volume is ever growing. Many graph processing tasks are computation intensive and/or memory intensive. Therefore, we have witnessed a significant amount of effort in accelerating graph processing tasks with heterogeneous architectures like GPUs, FPGAs and even ASIC. In this talk, we will first review the literatures of large graph processing systems on heterogeneous architectures. Next, we present our research efforts, and demonstrate the significant performance impact of hardware-software co-design on designing high performance graph computation systems and applications. Finally, we outline the research agenda on challenges and opportunities in the system and application development of future graph processing. More details about our research can be found at http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~hebs/.

## Biodata
Dr. Bingsheng He is currently a Dean’s Chair Associate Professor and Vice-Dean (Research) at School of Computing, National University of Singapore. Before that, he was a faculty member in Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (2010-2016), and held a research position in the System Research group of Microsoft Research Asia (2008-2010), where his major research was building high performance cloud computing systems for Microsoft. He got the Bachelor degree in Shanghai Jiao Tong University (1999-2003), and the Ph.D. degree in Hong Kong University of Science & Technology (2003-2008). His current research interests include cloud computing, database systems and high-performance computing. His papers are published in prestigious international journals (such as ACM TODS and IEEE TKDE/TPDS/TC) and proceedings (such as ACM SIGMOD, VLDB/PVLDB, ACM/IEEE SuperComputing, ACM HPDC, and ACM SoCC). He has been awarded with the IBM Ph.D. fellowship (2008), NVIDIA Academic Partnership (2011), Adaptive Compute Research Cluster from Xilinx (2020) and ACM distinguished member (class 2020). Since 2010, he has (co-)chaired a number of international conferences and workshops, including IEEE CloudCom 2014/2015, BigData Congress 2018 and ICDCS 2020. He has served in editor board of international journals, including IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing (IEEE TCC), IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (IEEE TPDS), IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE), Springer Journal of Distributed and Parallel Databases (DAPD) and ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR). He is an ACM Distinguished member (class of 2020).
