---
short_name: arunabha
name: Arunabha Sen
position: Professor, School of Computing
---
Arunabha (Arun) Sen is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the School of Computing and Augmented Intelligence at Arizona State University (http://netsci.asu.edu). He received his bachelor’s degree in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering from Jadavpur University in Kolkata, India and PhD degree in Computer Science from the University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, USA. He served as the Associate Chairman of the Computer Science and Engineering department of Arizona State University responsible for Graduate Programs and Research from 2001-7. As a Visiting Faculty, he spent sabbaticals at the University of California, San Diego, University of California, Berkeley, Columbia University, Wroclaw University of Science and Technology in Poland and in INRIA, Lille, France. His research interests are in resource optimization problems in a variety of networks, such as wireless, optical, sensor, electric power-grid and social networks. He primarily studies the algorithmic issues related to the problems in these domains utilizing graph theoretic, game theoretic and combinatorial optimization techniques. He has published over one hundred research papers in peerreviewed journals and conferences on these topics. He has served as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing. His research is sponsored by various U.S. Government agencies, such as the National Science Foundation, U.S. Army Research Office, Air Force Office of Scientific Research, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Office of Naval Research and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. He started the IEEE International Workshop on Network Science for Communication Networks (NetSciCom) in 2009 and ACM International Workshop on Critical Infrastructure Network Security (CINS) in 2017 and IEEE International Workshop on Network Science for Quantum Communication Networks (NetSciQCom) in 2022.
